

##Brief Hospital Course Summary###

___ year old female with past medical history notable for afib on 
warfarin and recurrent falls. Per report of primary team, she 
suffered a fall earlier and struck her head on a doorknob. She 
initially was able to get up and refused transfer to the 
hospital, but later (<1 hour after), she noticed swelling in her 
neck and difficulty breathing.  

She was brought to the emergency room  where a CT scan of the 
neck was done, which showed a large prevertebral retropharyngeal 
hematoma with active extravasation of contrast. She was 
intubated in the emergency room.  The patient was admitted to 
the MICU for monitoring and pulmonary toilet. 

On arrival to the MICU, the neurosurgical, ENT, and spine teams 
were consulted, who did not initially plan for surgical 
intervention. The ACS team was consulted given multiple other 
areas with evidence of trauma, and recommended transfer to the 
TSICU.  Imaging of the neck showed active extravasation, venous 
vs arterial but the  source was unclear. Per Neurosurgery/ENT, 
there was no clear surgical intervention to be performed. An MRI 
of the neck was done which demonstrated an acute fracture 
involving the anterior C4 vertebral body.  The patient was 
placed in a soft collar for comfort but later discontinue 
because the spine was stable and there was only 1 column injury. 
  An oral-gastric tube was placed for the initiation of tube 
feedings. Prior to extubation, the patient underwent a bronch 
which demonstrated tracheomalacia. She had pneumonia from group 
B strep and was started a 7 day course of antibiotics: 
ceftriaxone and azithromycin, which was changed to ancef when 
culture date was obtained. 

The patient was successfully weaned and extubated on ___.  To 
provide nutrition after removal of the oral gastric tube, the 
patient was evaluated by Speech and Swallow and underwent a 
Video swallow. She was transitioned to a soft diet. Because of 
the patient's underlying cardiac history, she underwent an 
echocardiogram which showed an EF 50-55%, and 2+ MR.

___ patient was transferred to the surgical floor on ___.  Her 
hematocrit remained stable. On ___, she reported increased neck 
and posterior head pain.  The Neurosurgery service was 
re-consulted and recommended a non-contrast head cat scan which 
showed severe chronic small vessel ischemic changes with no 
acute process. The patient was given pain medication and warm 
compresses and her neck pain decreased in intensity.  In 
preparation for discharge, she was evaluated by physical therapy 
and recommendations made for discharge to a rehabilitation 
facility. 

The patient was discharged on HD # 11.  Her vital signs were 
stable and she was afebrile. She was voiding without difficulty 
and had return of bowel function.  Her appetite continued to be 
decreased and she was provided with nutritional supplements.  
She had no difficulty with swallowing.  Her hematocrit and white 
blood cell count stabilized.  Appointments for ___ were 
made in the acute care clinic.  Discharge instructions were 
reviewed and questions answered.

Her anticoagulation was held during this admission, and should 
not be continued until discussion with her PCP at ___.